---
title: Hayley Marshall
file: hayley
link: https://soundcloud.com/user-122062946/hayley-marshall?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing
---
"My name is Hayley Marshall, I'm a fourth year studying Environmental Sciences and Global Sustainability at the University of Virginia. I'm from the Eastern Shore of Virginia, it's this little peninsula attached to Delaware and Maryland, bordered by the Atlantic Ocean on the eastern side and the Chesapeake Bay on the western side.

Growing up I always had a really close connection with nature. Being in a coastal rural community there wasn't much else to do except go to the beach and go out to the islands, so just being close to nature and being outside was really an integral part of my childhood.

My community, where I'm from, has been seeing a lot of negative impacts due to climate change, including sea level rise and the die-off of some important species that are valuable to the economy in my area. That's why I decided to get a degree in environmental science, because I hope to contribute to positive change.

There's a lot of really complex emotions when it comes to climate change - it's something that I feel really passionately about, it's something that I want to devote my career towards, so it provokes a lot of - not necessarily anxiety but excitement towards action in me and hope for the future. But also that's counterbalanced by this existential dread of what exactly might happen if we continue on the course we're going. It's difficult sometimes to see the light at the end of the tunnel, to see that there is a solution and there is a pathway forward.

The culture in my community is really complicated. The watermen, they comprise a really integral part of the Eastern Shore community and culture. It's a way of life that's been a part of this community for a really long time, just going out on the water and fishing, harvesting species and having a close relationship with nature while at the same time using it for your economics to sustain your livelihood. That's a really big part of the local economy, and I know a lot of watermen where I'm from who care about the environment and want to protect it. They see the impacts oftentimes of the flooding and biodiversity loss that impact their yield year to year, but there's also an element of what I see as denial, where climate change doesn't fit into their framework for understanding the world. It's hard to get that message across that in order to protect our community for the future we need to address climate change and take action. There's kind of a disconnect there, and there's definitely a disconnect between scientists and watermen. Watermen, they tend to see nature as something that's inherently unpredictable and something that can't be controlled by anyone except for a higher power. You might see flooding or you might see these extreme weather events but in the long run things will be okay. Whereas scientists, they are looking at long term trends, they're looking at the data, and it's just a very different way of seeing the world. There's a complex relationship there, and it's something that is difficult to navigate. Especially as someone who is part of the local community but also part of the scientific community, I find it difficult to deal with those contradictions."
