---
title: Sophie Peng
file: sophie
link: https://soundcloud.com/user-122062946/sophie-peng?utm_source=clipboard&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=social_sharing
---
"Hi, I'm Sophie, I am currently a fourth year at UVA studying Global Sustainability and Marketing. I grew up in Beijing, so obviously it is a very populated city. And I think one thing that really impacted me growing up was the air pollution. I remember we would literally be wearing masks when we had P.E. classes because of the danger of just breathing the natural air. It was just really sad because you imagine kids playing outside to be good and fun, but when you see that it's like oh, it doesn't look like it's good for your health, and it wasn't good for your health. [The pollution level] wasn't always high, there were some days it was green. It wasn't like every day we expected to wear masks, but it was pretty regular and there were some days when they had to be like, nobody is going outside today because it was really bad. But it was definitely something that you notice - this isn't how it's like everywhere. Because you see literally firsthand when the smog doesn't allow you to have the same experience as somewhere else. We would literally travel three hours or so away, two or three hours away by bus, to this place to stargaze. You know, you have to make those intentional efforts to go see nature, and while here I'll be walking my dogs and you look up and there are the stars. I still get so amazed by that. You want more people to be able to have that connection with the environment, whether it's this generation or later. Thats one thing that really prompted me to study environmental science in highschool and moving forward - to think about how we change that, and how do we move forward, making it not the case anymore for the next generation."
