---
title: Alexis Conners
image: alexis-conners.jpeg
---
"I've always learned about climate change(then global warming) in middle and high school science classes, however I didn't know how it impacted me and how I may be playing a role in it. After recently watching documentaries about fast fashion, the meat industry, and single use plastics, I was able to recognize that I was playing a minor role in the changing climate of our Earth. Learning these things allowed me to be more conscious of how I think about the Earth and its resources; how much I am using and which are necessary. I made a few small changes like buying only second hand clothing, switching to reusable items instead of single use plastics, and considering changing my diet to more plant based. I recognize that all of these are matters of consumption–a reflection of US capitalism. Many people in the US are programmed to constantly consume things, which benefits large companies(driving the changing climate), but no one else. Everyday, I think about how I can make minor changes to lower my impact on the Earth and try my best to educate others on small, practical changes that they can make as well. 

As I think about climate change, I immediately feel very sad, concerned, and angry. I feel angry that large companies are able to continue to exploit people and the Earth's resources for profit–and also confused how some can value money over the health of our planet. I also feel concerned that many people are aware of the issues we are facing and yet don't seem to care or are willing to educate themselves and make changes. This makes me think about how we are raised to believe that the Earth's resources are at our disposable and that we somehow have the inherent right to use whatever we need from it. Reflecting on this makes me recognize that our society's separation from nature is probably the cause of this–why would people feel concerned about the Earth if they don't feel a part of it? In some ways I feel hopeless that my family and future generations will suffer unnecessarily because of the greed and negligence of a few powerful companies. But other times, I have faith that people are becoming more aware, scientific innovations are becoming more advanced, and legislation is evolving–in many ways, change is possible."
