---
title: Amanda Nelsen
image: amanda-nelsen.jpeg
---
"My parents instilled in me the value of living within our means and avoiding misuse or waste of energy and resources. They really modeled trying not to consume - to question our consumerist habits. They expressed the value in understanding how things are made and by whom and who is impacted by those decisions and then how things are used and cared for and fixed. So I grew up doing a lot of reusing, I grew up trying to reduce or seeing others try to reduce our consumption, and then certainly focused a fair amount on recycling. So my understanding of climate change is very much from that perspective. As I have grown and learned more about the very frightening impacts of climate change and indeed the current impacts of our changing climate, I am even more drawn to these principles of living within one's means and avoiding excess and considering where and how things have been placed before us. So I wonder, I notice and I wonder about the things around me and what they are made of and who made them, what parts of the earth have been taken away or whose air has been polluted in their making. Whose future would be lessened or will be lessened because of this object that perhaps I've used for just a moment to carry a snack or a tool or a toy. I wonder about these things and their stories and I try to use them in my art to see what story they tell. The notion of climate change has shaped how I make decisions on a daily basis, how I get around, what I buy, what I make, how I make things, what I am reading, who I admire, and who I vote for. And it will continue to do so. I am very determined to be part of the solutions around these issues and try my very best to not make them any worse."
