---
title: Brooke Crouch
image: brooke-crouch.jpeg
---
"I'm from Charlottesville and I've lived here for 21 years. I remember fall and winter being so different as a kid. Fall would start at the beginning of September, near my birthday. Now September is just a continuation of summer. The leaves aren't as golden, they fall and die so much faster than they used to. And winter is much more mild, we barely have snow days. I remember being out of school for several days to several weeks in elementary school for snow - we've had maybe three or four snow days in the last several years. Sometimes I think about this and wonder if I'm just remembering wrong, but my parents tell me that they've noticed the same thing. There's a term, solastalgia, it means distress or depression brought on by climate change and environmental degradation, and I feel it every time I think about these changes.

I vividly remember the moment I first really understood what a massive problem climate change was. The news was on at my home and they were talking about the climate impacts that year and how it was just getting worse. I asked my parents if it was true, and they said that someone was going to solve it, don't worry. But it didn't feel right, the way they said it. And I realized that my parents didn't know what was going to happen any more than I did. Every time they told me that it would be fine, that climate change would be solved soon - they were lying. I remember just starting to cry and being unable to stop. 

I still feel like that a lot of the time - this sense that this huge, apocalyptic thing is approaching and there's nothing we can do about it. Scientists have said we have until 2030 to get our emissions under control and make huge changes - sometimes at night, I just can't stop thinking about that ticking clock. Thinking about the future gives me immense anxiety - I'll think about something normal, like where I want to be in my career in 10 years, or if I'll have a family, and then I'm like wait - why am I thinking about these things like there's nothing wrong with the world? We aren't living in a normal world with normal concerns. Climate change overrules all of those things. Where I want to live, if I want to have children, what I want to do as a career - climate change is the driving factor in all my decisions. Quite frankly, it should be the driving factor in all of our decisions.

Most of my extended family lives in Florida, within a couple of miles of the coast. That's an area that is going to be hit the most by sea level rise - within several decades, it will be completely flooded. This is something that scientists have confirmed, something I've learned in my environmental science classes, but my family members don't believe it. They keep buying houses and investing more into that area, stubbornly refusing to believe that climate change will affect them - or even that it is real. It makes me so frustrated that I want to scream at them. How can they deny science, deny facts? Just because it is a hard truth doesn't make it go away."
