---
title: Carrington Kernodle Epperson
image: carrington-kernodle-epperson.png
---
"I'm originally from Danville, which is in Southwestern Virginia close to the border to North Carolina, and the only other place I've lived long term has been Charlottesville. There are two things I've noticed living at these two places; first, the last time there was a white Christmas was when I was in highschool, 10 years ago, which is pretty surreal and frustrating to think about. Little things like that just aren't happening anymore, and that's happened in my lifetime, something that I can remember. My birthday is at the end of September and growing up it was always pretty cold, I remember the crisp cool air, that's just not a thing anymore. For the last ten years it's been 80 degrees at the end of September. I've always loved autumn [in Virginia], but the leaves don't change color like they used to. I've always grown up in the mountains, in the forests, watching the leaves change from the middle of September to the middle of November. It's happening later now and it's in a much shorter period of time. Especially at UVA - UVA is insanely gorgeous during autumn, but it's just not as much of a thing anymore. It's very frustrating that I'm not getting proper fall and winter anymore, it changes how my family and I can do our traditions and the activities I'm used to doing with my friends and family. That's been really sad.

Foraging is very different. Even though [my husband] and I only recently got into foraging, it's very clear that climate change is affecting it. We're not getting as much rain - mushrooms grow with cycles of routine, weekly rain between spring and fall, and that's not a thing anymore. We can go mushroom hunting all we want, in certain areas where we know the trees and the soil conditions are right, but they just aren't growing because there's no rain. There's a stark difference between how berries taste in some areas that are more prone to drought than others. There's one area with super sweet berries because of all the rain, and in another they are super tart and bitter. It's making it hard to enjoy those things, and as an ethical forager you don't take as much in general and now there's even less of those opportunities. You're seeing things that should be blooming but they don't make it to full bloom because they are sunburned, or the trees haven't extended their foliage to cover enough shade on the underpass for the flowers to come up. The weather is not consistent enough to support that activity.

Climate change is making it really hard for my grandmother to garden because it's so much hotter [during the growing season] and it's making [my grandmother] work harder in the garden. It's much drier, so she's trying to add more soil that she gets from the store, which is expensive, and do all this laborious work to grow her rose garden, and I'm worried. It's 90 degrees outside, you can't spend as much time outside as you used to. Even when it's humid it's suffocating. It's so hot that the asphalt is making that extra layer of heat and that reduces the activities we can do.

It's also so expensive to keep paying for utilities for all of my family members and friends because you have to keep it running all the time. You can't just open the windows, because if you live in a city you don't want the fumes to come in. You might open the windows to save electricity and money, but you're risking your health in a way that might be really damaging in the long run.

I started getting really hyper aware of climate change in middle school, and I was like 'oh wow, we've known that this has been a problem and we've been ignoring it, now that I know I'm not going to ignore it'. I started getting my family to eat better, do things like that, and when I got to college I started taking a lot more environmental science courses and I realized that we have definitely known about this. And I see all the ways in which our society's structure is perpetuating it, and I started to get hyper aware of all kinds of things. Like every red solo cup I've ever touched at a party still exists. That's so wild for me to think about and I cringe at myself. Or just thinking about how easy it is now to compost, I could have done that with my family. There's so much I learned only when I got to college. 

Sometimes I think about what life will look like for me in the future. Like skiing - will I ever ski on real snow again? Or what we are doing to the fish in the ocean, that was the main reason I stopped eating fish because I couldn't contribute to that. Because it's in our lifetime, quite soon, that there will be no fish in the ocean by 2050. That's 38 years from now, before I even reach retirement age. I don't even know what that life is going to look like. Maybe if I was a little older I wouldn't worry so much because it wouldn't impact me, but it's going to.

I've worked really hard through meditation to decrease my anxiety about [climate change] and start to formulate the tangible ways that I can help. Which really helps me stay motivated to help continue a sustainable, vegan lifestyle and show up as a role model and help others, and if we all get together we can make change and make this a lot more tolerable. I try to take in anxiety and repurpose it as inspiration to actually do something about it instead of just being a sitting duck.

In the work I do know, I strive to make people realize how deeply connected they are to the environment and how impactful they are on everyone's well being, through mindfulness. You first have to bring awareness to these things, and that's what mindfulness is - becoming aware, nonjudgmentally, in the present moment. First let's cultivate the awareness of all these things you are connected to, and then think deeply in self inquiry and figure out what is your impact, what can you do, what do you love. Sorting through all that, validating, cultivating compassion for yourself and others is something I really try to infuse through my teaching. I also remind people when we do visualization meditations to really think about what does it look like, feel like, getting very granular in the experience of nature.

In my own personal business, I drill in outdoor education, I tell people you just have to go outside. Leading workshops, taking people on foraging trips, has been a way to show people the wildlife around us and get them involved - donate, volunteer, bring other people so they can appreciate it as well. We are so deep in our little ecosystems that we don't step out of it enough to remember that there's a whole planet out there."
