---
title: Ella Fesler
image: ella-fesler.jpeg
---
"Back in highschool I took a sustainability class, and my teacher at the time had just discovered Project Green Challenge. It's a 30 day challenge where each day is focused on a new sustainability based subject and you learn about all these diff ways that you can live more sustainable lives and also all these different ways in which our lifestyles are affecting climate change. My friend and I were doing it together, we at first just wanted to win… but as we got more into it we were actually really taken aback [that] all of these things like food, the beauty products you use, everything in your lifestyle really does have implications. And you are only one person in this, but collectively all of us doing these things are really impacting the environment. That's where I first started to get interested in sustainability, and then over the past year, especially with the pandemic, I personally developed a really strong attachment to food and cooking. And that became a really important part of my life, and in turn that influenced my outake on food in terms of climate change and I started to become a lot more interested in how sustainable agriculture vs. conventional agriculture affects our world, and how only certain people, privileged people, have access to food that is grown without all these damaging pesticides, things like that.

I think that the only way for sustainable agriculture to work in the capitalistic world we live in today is if we switch to small scale farming systems and community based agriculture where everyone is either paying or pitching in to help in order to have these farms. I would love to work on a sustainable farm one day, or a food coop or something like that. 

I think that at first [learning about sustainability] I got really sucked into this idea of everyone for themself in climate focused issues, [the idea that] if you're not doing everything you can to live a more sustainable lifestyle you're an awful person. I remember trashing my friends, like oh my god she's using a plastic straw I can't believe that - I definitely felt it about my own personal actions too, I got super caught up in that. And then coming to college I realized that I'm living a very privileged lifestyle where I can buy a metal straw, or buy organic produce, and the world is built in a way where a lot of people literally cannot access that. And also cannot access education about climate change and things like that. That really shifted my perspective to realizing it's not each person for their own.

I definitely feel a lot of anxiety about [climate change], just thinking about having kids and putting them into this mess that we have going on. Just reading the most recent [Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change] report that came out, that was really stressful. As someone who is pretty sure they are going to go into a climate focused field, it's kind of like 'why am I doing that when I don't know how much impact it's going to have, considering our current outlook into the future.' I've gotten to the point where I'm realizing that there's not going to be some crazy whole world change where suddenly all these corporations are regulated more and actually care about pollution, the United States isn't going to suddenly switch to all sustainable energy or practices in general. But I think you can find a lot of hope in small scale things, like working on a sustainable farm to provide food for people that can't typically access food. To me in a way that is hopeful because you are curating a community around something that is not harming the earth. 

With my current internship I actually do think about climate change a lot just because that's what the organization is focused around, but I honestly don't think about it that much on a daily basis. Because that would stress me out a lot, I kind of have to tuck it away. You know it's like 'Our world is falling apart, but it's fine for now', just so I can go about my life and function in a healthy way.

UVA, as a university with such a big endowment and so much support going into it, is a larger entity that does have some sway in how things are run in our world. Maybe not in the whole world, but at least in Virginia and the United States, and I think that being conscious of that and actually taking that into account in whatever actions that they choose to do have big impacts. Whether that be putting people on their board that are from these horrible companies [like Dominion Energy] or using prison labor to build the furniture we sit in every day in our classrooms, being conscious of how changing those things can actually change both the immediate impacts and the culture around it is so important."
