---
title: Erin Baker
image: erin-baker.jpeg
---
"I am from King George, Virginia and a lot of my family lives in Westmoreland. The Potomac River is pretty integral to the culture of my family and many others in the area, whether it is swimming and kayaking or harvesting crabs and oysters. It is sad to see how rising sea levels and increased frequencies of storms cause more damage to the coasts every year. It seems that a lot of people don't believe in the reality of climate change and I am afraid for how it will affect the community as I get older. In areas of the Eastern Shore, I know that homes will soon be going underwater and people will be forced out of their land and homes. I can only see that as the future for other areas in coastal Virginia as well.

I think many students here at UVA are in a similar situation of choosing their life-path - it is not a simple question of 'What do I think would be a nice job?', but also 'Will this industry perpetuate climate change?' or 'Will this career be viable considering climate change over my lifetime?' I am studying Civil Engineering, but was not comfortable with the prospects of land development as a career. I added Environmental Science as a major to give me more environmentally useful options, but it is still hard to find a job that is doing beneficial work with climate change in mind. I would also really love to have kids one day, but it is sad that they will have to deal more with the effects of climate change that we have created."
