---
title: Haley Dues
image: haley-dues.jpeg
---
"I'm from Houston, Ohio, which is a rural town north of Dayton with a population that's easily less than 1,000. It's a community of farmers - dairy farmers, pig farmers, and crop farmers - soybeans, wheat, and corn mostly. As a result of climate change, we've really noticed the shorter periods of time in which you have to plant the crops between the rainy season and the dry season - it's not as flexible as it used to be. If you don't get it in, farmers will have issues producing enough to get by financially for the entire year. And the dry season in the summer has gotten a lot worse, some farmers have had to put in irrigation systems, which should not be necessary in the Midwest. And there have been massive storms that have just laid down entire fields of corn, that's been wild.

If the agricultural seasons shift or become smaller, that really puts people in financial trouble if they can't get as much crop yield or have as much yield as they planned for - for some this is their whole source of income. The population of my hometown has decreased rapidly in the past few years. Kids aren't coming back to continue the family farms, they are moving on and moving out. It's really sad to see that town, that community collapsing as a result of instability with farming [due to climate change.] 

I'm a civil engineer and it's vital in our work to consider the environmental consequences of each new project, of each old project, and mitigating the negative impact we have on the environment. I specifically am going into bridge engineering, inspection, and preservation, which is really cool because we get to see the lifespan of a bridge and do what we can to expand the lifetime of that bridge, which is important because they are very resource intensive to build.

I think about climate change a lot. It's a very scary and overwhelming thing to think about. It's so easy to be hopeless when considering climate change - When you start to have these thoughts that I am just one person, what kind of impact can I possibly have when there are these massive corporations and legal structures in place that are damaging the planet? Massive corporations that have a larger impact than I ever will, and my positive can't possibly outdo their negative. Getting sucked into that stream of thought is something that I find extremely easy to do but something I have had to fight against so I don't feel as despondent and anxious when considering the future for myself, my family and the community I'm in. [I think that] you have to remind yourself that what you are doing is the best you can do - that's all you can do. You just have to find peace with that but it is difficult, especially when it is related to such a bigger issue."
