---
title: Hayley Marshall
image: hayley-marshall.png
---
"I'm from the Eastern Shore of Virginia… It's this little peninsula attached to Delaware and Maryland, and it's bordered by the Atlantic ocean and the Chesapeake Bay. Growing up I always had a really close connection with nature - being in a coastal rural community there wasn't much else to do besides go to the beach and go out to the islands, so just being close to nature and being outside was really an integral part of my childhood. And now - even when I was growing up, but now especially - my community has been seeing a lot of negative impacts because of climate change, including sea level rise and the die-off of some important species that are valuable to the economy in my area. 

For me one of the most pivotal moments in my life was when after Hurricane Sandy I visited Cobb Island, which was where my family and I always used to go, and the island was completely transformed. It had been slashed in half by a big river and an immense amount of erosion had, over the course of a couple of weeks, just really depleted the size of the island. You could just see how fast and drastically it changed. That happened when I was 10 years old and that was the moment when I really saw how climate change was impacting my local community and impacting me as well.

There's a lot of really complex emotions in me when it comes to climate change. It's something I feel really passionately about, it's something I want to devote my career towards, so it provokes a lot of - not necessarily anxiety but excitement towards action and hope for the future, counter balanced by this existential dread of what exactly might happen if we continue on the course we are going. It's difficult sometimes to see the light at the end of the tunnel, and that there is a solution and a pathway forward. There's definitely a feeling of being hopeless and that there's not as much of an impact that you can make in your life, that's something I grapple with on a day to day basis.

That's why I decided to get my degree in Environmental Science because I really hope to contribute to positive change, and eventually contribute to wetland restoration and coastal ecosystem restoration that will help the eastern shore. 

The culture of my community is really complicated, especially with the water men. They comprise a really integral part of the Eastern Shore community and culture, it's a way of life thats been a part of the community for a really long time, just going out on the water and fishing, harvesting species and having a close relationship with nature while at the same time using it to sustain your livelihood. I know plenty of watermen who care about the environment and want to protect it, and they see the impacts of flooding and biodiversity loss and things that impact their yield year to year, but there's also an element of denial, where climate change doesn't fit into their framework for understanding the world. It's hard to get the message across that in order to sustain their livelihood and to protect our community for the future we need to address this issue and take action at every single level. There's a real disconnect there. And there's definitely a disconnect between scientists and watermen. [In my experience] watermen tend to see nature as something that's inherently unpredictable and can't be controlled by anything except a higher power. There's this faith that even though you might see flooding and extreme weather events, in the long run things will be okay. Whereas scientists use data, and they don't use their cultural experiences or personal experiences to inform their knowledge systems. There's definitely a divide between knowledge of scientists working on the Eastern Shore and the local watermen's understanding of climate change and nature. There's a complex relationship there and it's something that is difficult to navigate at times, especially as someone who's part of the scientific community but also a part of the local community. I find it difficult at times to deal with those contradictions."
