---
title: Jacqueline Chao
image: ph.png
---
"I was born in Fairfax, VA but spent pretty much my entire life in Leesburg (NOVA region), but my family came from Beijing, China. That is a place where they have personally experienced a great deal of the effects of climate change, and I've also visited several times. The most stark, noticeable thing you experience there is the smog - a lot of people have heard about the smog, and in American cities we get smog too, but in Beijing it's particularly bad. People wear masks as a daily necessity wherever you go outside. Down to the nitty gritty of daily life, it's something you have to pay attention to when living in Beijing, you have to do a daily clean to get rid of the dust and smog in your house, it just leaks in. With increased smog, there's also an increased chance of asthma, which can really affect your lungs and your way of life. Fortunately none of my family has asthma. The smog, it is not actually a weather event but it's there all the time, and people have come to expect it and just go about their lives expecting it, like 'oh we are going to have particularly bad smog today, remember to wear your mask, do your clean today'. That's one place where climate change has really reared its ugly head.

I remember hearing about how hurricanes are increasing in frequency and intensity, and how floods are becoming worse, because of climate change, and realizing all these people were experiencing power outages, not being able to live in their homes because they'd been destroyed by these weather events, all around the world and in america too. It just made me think that we can't just accept it, all the things we are doing just have these terrible impacts, and we need to work together - as a collective, which is much harder to do [in our society]. 

[When I think about climate change], it makes me think that I'm not going to live in certain places, because of the risk to my health, and lifestyle. You know, Florida sounds like a nice place and I would like to live there if it wasn't going to be under water in a few decades. I'm thinking, 'oh, I'm going to live in Canada because I'm not going to have to deal with hurricanes or floods', that definitely directs my decision making. But it also makes me think I'm just running away from these problems - I realize it's a problem and all I can do is use my knowledge to try to not have to deal with it. 

I'm minoring in Technology and the Environment and I'm working for Green Dining. Since I know in the future dealing with climate change and being equipped to handle the effects are going to be such a big thing in the future (and are already a big thing now), I wanted to be prepared to talk about it, do stuff about it, handle the consequences if they ever come my way - which they probably will, with the wildfires or the hurricanes or the floods. So I wanted to get educated, and also to orient some of my career towards it. I am a Computer Science major but I could easily combine Computer Science with fighting against climate change - not really fighting because at this point it's inevitable, but helping humanity be more prepared against it.

I've been pretty fortunate to not really have to think about climate change. I realize my privilege living in America [and in a place where] we don't really get the wildfires, the smog. It's not as much of a daily thing I have to orient my life around, but otherwise I would be thinking about it constantly. 

With food and waste especially, [UVA] should make more effective systems against food waste, and also make plant forward options more available on grounds. I think people would be open to more plant forward eating provided it was good and there was variety. Trying to move away from fossil fuels and towards more green energy is critical."
