---
title: Dr. Jennifer LoCasale-Crouch
image: jennifer-locasale-crouch.png
---
"Growing up in Florida, I was aware of a changing climate but did not think much about either the causes, or consequences, of it then. It just simply was part of our existence, the way we ebbed and flowed with the intense heat, or storms, and the recovery that would inevitably have to come afterward. When I became more of an outdoor person as an adult, and especially as I began to work in places around the world, I started to consider our connection to and impact on the world more deeply. 
 
It was not until we had our twin daughters, however, that I really started to deeply grapple with what climate change meant to our future. It began when we would take them hiking and camping. Exploring nature with young children brought up a lot of questions. Why had there been fires in that park? Why is that water melting from that glacier? Why is it so dry here? This exploration of protected spaces led us to conversations of what was not protected. As young children do, they pushed us to question. Why is it this way and, more importantly, what can we do about it? We wanted to instill openness to learning as well as having agency to create change in them. So, starting at an early age, they helped us to begin to find answers to these questions. First, it started with small things, like engaging in community clean ups and understanding why this mattered. Then, actions got bigger. We got more serious about reducing our own impact. We inventoried our habits of shopping. We stopped using any type of disposable bags and shopped bulk where we could. And, after learning about animal agriculture's impact on the climate, we transitioned to eating whole food, plant based. And, of course, we voted. 
 
When our daughters started at UVA, we saw a new level of activism emerge. They have since led workshops on writing letters to the editors on climate issues, worked as sustainability advocates and engaged with non-profit environmental organizations who are leading environmental change. Their increased activism got me thinking about the environmental messages I was conveying to my own students. I started looking for small ways to address the issue and provoke conversation. For example, when we would meet in person (before covid), I would bring vegan snacks I made and serve them on reusable plates. We would talk about how you can eat good and do good, if you have helpful information to do it. And, in my research lab, we began doing sustainability challenges, seeing what new ideas people could come up with in their own life to make one small change for the environment. What I found, time and time again, was that students were already thinking about and wanting to do better, but sometimes just needed the tools or encouragement to take the kind of action that could lead to change. 
 
All this is to say that I do get anxious about the future, but I also feel hope by putting effort into changing the things I can. And, this hopefulness also comes from seeing my daughters' and students' commitment to building a better world –  shown through their thinking deeply about challenging problems, finding tangible solutions and working hard to organize people to engage in them. I recognize I say all this from a place of privilege. I know I have resources, opportunity and community that makes these actions possible. And, at UVA, they have those too. By putting our values into action, UVA can lead the way – not only in how it can serve as a model university but also in fostering the next generation of leaders who will be the change we seek."
