---
title: Michael Nicklas
image: michael-nicklas.jpeg
---
"I'm from northern Virginia not too far from Washington D.C. The most noticeable difference I've noticed there in terms of climate change is the lack of snow we now get in the winter months and the unpredictable temperatures we experience. When I was in middle school and high school we generally expected, and got, a fair amount of snow each year. Throughout college, I noticed we slowly started getting less and less snow and now it's not even shocking if we don't get much snow or none at all in the winter season. Coinciding with this are the unusual temperatures we get. In December it's not uncommon for it to be 60 degrees one day and 30 the next. These changes in weather have been concerning and I think a real testament to the reality of climate change in my personal life. More recently I've been a part of a service program where I've traveled around the Pacific region of the U.S. and have learned more about how climate change is affecting other parts of the country. This past fall I was working on a river restoration project in Clayton, ID along the East Fork of the Salmon River. One of the main goals of the project is to restore the salmon populations there that have been on the decline in recent years in part because increased temperatures from climate change have made the river too hot and uninhabitable for the salmon. Salmon is such an important part of the livelihoods of the people there. Particularly the Shoshone-Bannock tribes who have lived in the area and hunted salmon sustainably for centuries, so it's sad to see. I'm now in Southern California building houses where heat waves, droughts, and wildfires are all much more prevalent and intense due to climate change, and pose a direct threat to the people and ecosystems here. 

I think about these specific cases I've had personal experiences with when it comes to climate change, but I also think about the myriad people and places across the globe I don't personally know that will be affected by it. Whether it be the island communities facing the loss of their culture from sea level rise or farmers' livelihoods threatened by desertification to the mammoth amount of plant and animal species going extinct and the future generations of people that will be exposed to more intense and regular natural disasters, there are so many people and beings who will be negatively impacted by climate change. Knowing about climate change's vast negative impacts has been a huge motivator in my caring about it.

I first really became aware of the severity of climate change and felt compelled to act the summer before my senior year of high school after I watched the documentary Cowspiracy. From the documentary I learned that the United States' primary way of producing meat via factory farming is inherently unsustainable and a large contributor to greenhouse gases. I also got a broader understanding of how serious climate change was in general and felt compelled to act. I went vegetarian for 2 months before going vegan and have been vegan ever since. Eating more plant-based is something I think individuals can do to help at least somewhat in the climate crisis. Climate change has also impacted other personal choices I make on a daily basis. Whether it be bringing a reusable utensil with me everywhere I go or unplugging things from outlets when I'm done using them, I try to do what I can as an individual to lessen my environmental impact and I think about climate change often when making personal choices. Climate change has also impacted my professional aspirations as well. It played a great role in my decision to double major in Global Sustainability and Environmental Sciences and I definitely picture myself going into a career focused on climate change mitigation and/or environmental protection in the future. As much as I believe in the power of individuals, I also think large-scale systemic changes in all aspects of our society are needed in order to combat the climate crisis. Additionally, I believe that large corporations who have historically and continue to contribute the most to greenhouse gas emissions need to be held accountable for the damage they've done. At the same time I think voting with our dollar and making other personal, albeit perhaps small, decisions can inspire others to do the same and amount to impactful outcomes. 

Climate change is something I think about pretty much everyday and it makes me anxious. I contemplate if I'm doing enough all the time and worry about the future. It helps knowing that there are lots of incredible solutions and initiatives in the works to help combat the climate crisis. It makes me hopeful and excited for our future, but I know too that there's still so much work to be done. I also recognize the immense privilege I have to even have the time and resources to think about climate change and to make changes and decisions in my personal life revolving around it. As a prominent institution, UVA needs to take drastic measures to combat climate change. It should be a top priority and something they think considerably about throughout their decision-making across the university."
