---
title: Mithra Dhinakaran
image: mithra-dhinakaran.jpeg
---
"I come from NOVA in a pretty suburban environment, nature wasn't a huge part of my upbringing. I do remember going on walks and hikes but for the most part what I learned about the environment came from just reading and what I was taught in school. Even in elementary school they would teach us about the 3 R's - reduce, reuse, recycle - and that attitude is something that has stayed with me to the point where I am now even if it faded for a little bit. I think what jolted it back was when the US pulled out of the Paris Accord, and that reminded me that this is a problem that is getting worse. At the same time we keep getting these reports that the climate is steadily worsening, and as a consequence of that I started looking a little bit more closely at what I was doing. 

I've been flexitarian my whole life… In my mind I had this vague idea that being vegetarian was good for the environment so I started doing that. But it wasn't until COVID happened and  I got off the meal plan and I started to cook for myself that I started thinking about what I was buying and consuming a little more carefully. I think for a college student, for an individual person, there is not a whole lot we can do to directly impact our carbon footprint and the fight against climate change, but food is something that we have the ability to effect in terms of what is being sold because our dollar is our vote. In learning how to cook I started taking a closer look at the ingredients I was buying. As I was doing my research I noticed things were complicated in terms of the most sustainable food and practices, I just did a very deep dive to figure out what I could do. So my goal with eating plant based was to do what all [my research] told me to do, which is shift away from an animal product heavy diet and figure out a way to do that that wasn't challenging. I'm not a great cook, but the goal of pursuing this lifestyle is trying to figure out how to minimize my impact with the least amount of difficulty. 

I started this instagram account [@vegan_gainzzzzzz] to put out these recipes and tips for how you can incorporate this lifestyle and at the same time show people that it can be something really simple. Especially because cooking is such a challenge for people - it can seem daunting, inaccessible, and expensive. Food is something we experience every day, it is a choice we make every day what and what not to consume - it's a really good way to signal to policy makers and everyone out there that you care about what you are consuming. 

I don't really plan to pursue a career focused on sustainability but it's important that even if you are not, that you find a way to incorporate sustainability into your everyday life. It shouldn't be something niche for people who plan to devote their lives to it, it should be something that everyone should be doing. We all should know how to recycle properly and cook sustainably and all that. I'm hoping to work on that with the blog and instagram.

Hearing all these [climate change] reports made me feel a little hopeless, especially because when you try to quantify the difference you are making as an individual, switching to a plant based diet or using your reusable grocery bags at the store, you realize that it doesn't amount to much. But I was reminded recently while taking a class something Gandhi said, which was 'Be the change you wish to see in the world.' So these individual actions aren't about the quantitative impact as much as they are about signaling to other people what you care about and building towards a change in culture towards how we see our environment and our food systems which are so heavily corrupted. By being that example, encouraging other people to adopt similar diets or just try a plant based meal now and then, will create a snowball effect that will hopefully lead to greater political and economic reform. 

I would tell UVA leadership that this school has been around for centuries. If we want to keep it around for longer we really have to care about the land and the community here. [We have to] be a leader and set an example in how we manage our waste, how we treat our land, how we meet our sustainability goals… I think a lot of students and people in this community are pushing for change, and the time to change is now."
