---
title: Samuel McBroom
image: samuel-mcbroom.jpg
---
"I think the biggest way [that climate change has impacted me] is my attitude towards having children. When I was younger I always assumed that I would have a big family after college - my parents definitely want grandkids. But as I went through college and learned more about the environment and the state we are in, it made me realize that this is not a world I would be comfortable having a child grow up in. It's been really sad for me and my family - my mom initially didn't understand my decision, but after talking to her more she started to understand that our generation is facing lots of problems we didn't cause but are forced to deal with. Climate change already impacts so many people now and there will be bigger issues in the future with competition for limited resources - I can't imagine bringing a child into that world.

Climate anxiety is definitely something that affects me quite a bit even though I like to think of myself as a fairly happy person. I am very fortunate in a lot of ways but it still depresses me going to bed at night. Even though I try to do my part, knowing that large corporations are still pumping out trash into the ocean and filling landfills can be really challenging. I did my capstone research on green data centers and it's really challenging to see some of the waste large data center companies have produced. E-waste is a huge issue that a lot of people don't think about as much. 

I don't directly deal with the climate crisis in my work and it makes me feel bad that I chose that path and don't contribute more directly to trying to fight it. It makes me hopeful to see youth like Greta Thunberg and the Divest UVA coalition trying their best, but it's also really sad to know they've had to dedicate their lives to fighting this issue. Sometimes I can't fall asleep because my mind just keeps thinking about climate change and what our future is going to look like.

If I could say something to UVA leadership about their climate action plan, I would tell them to think about the consequences of their actions. Most of the climate crisis has been brought on by short term corporate greed or political power and the university is not exempt from that. Thinking about long term benefits over that extra paycheck here or there, or short term savings, would really put the world on track to a much better future."
