---
title: Sarina Cooper
image: sarina-cooper.png
---
"The first time I really started becoming more aware of climate change was actually in elementary school. I was really lucky to go to a school where my teachers really encouraged us to spend time outside, observe the natural world, and think about our place in the natural world. And the first time that I had read about climate change it struck a nerve within me because of the biodiversity impacts. I've always been a huge animal lover, like I know a lot of people are, and so I think naturally as a kid that's the first thing that I really latched onto. For me and others it's like 'Oh no, the red pandas are going to be impacted by this terrible thing'. For me that concern for animals evolved over time into a more broad understanding of the impacts of climate change and how it was going to affect not only the animals that I really loved to read about and cared about, but also the people in my life that I really loved, and people who are not as privileged as me and probably will never get to have the same connection with the natural world that I was so privileged to have as a kid. So that really impacted me. Going into highschool and then college choosing to major in Global Sustainability was definitely driven by my concern for climate change and what the world was going to look like in the future for my generation and generations following. I think that it also has affected my personal life in a lot of ways, because whenever I think about moving somewhere after college, or whether or not I'm going to have kids when I'm older, climate change definitely factors into that. It's a big factor, too, because I don't want to go to some place where I feel like I'm going to be at risk. When I was younger I would really be concerned about certain parts of my family that lived in coastal areas and thought that maybe when I'm older I can convince them to move somewhere else because I'm worried about flooding and severe storms. So climate change definitely impacts both personal and professional life for me as I know it probably does for a lot of other people."
