---
title: Sophie Peng
image: sophie-peng.jpeg
---
"I've lived in Charlottesville for \~10 years but I grew up in Beijing, a very populated city, and one thing that really impacted me growing up was the air pollution. When I lived there [ten years ago] it was even worse than it is now, because now they've had some regulation and it has gotten better. I remember we would literally be wearing masks when we had P.E. class and other activities outside because of the danger of just breathing the natural air. It was really sad, because you imagine kids playing outside to be good and fun and a time to enjoy nature. [All those things are] supposed to be good for your health, whether physically or mentally, but when you see that it doesn't look like it's good for your health and it wasn't. That's one thing that really prompted me to study environmental science in high school - thinking about how we can change that and move forward making it not the case for the next generation.


Because it still wasn't always high [on the air pollution index], there were some days when it was green and there were some days when it was orange. It wasn't every day we expected to wear masks but it was pretty regular, and there were days when nobody could go outside because it was dangerous. It's definitely something that you notice, that it isn't like this everywhere. You see firsthand when the smog just doesn't allow you to have the same experience as somewhere else. My family also traveled a lot so we were able to see other places and that they weren't like that, so that comparison was there too.

By high school I was in Charlottesville and I remember when I first moved back here (and I was here when I was really young too) and I remember being so in awe of the squirrels and the deer - I was [amazed by] wildlife. It's very common here and you get used to it, living together with life that is beyond just human, and part of why nature is so cool. When I had the opportunity to learn Environmental Science in this new program that just opened in my high school, I thought it sounded cool. It was a really good experience because we grew together in not only hard knowledge of environmental issues but also grew together to see what we can do, being a part of the environment around us. 

Growing up in a city I didn't spend that much time interacting with the outside environment, outside of buildings. In that program we had a greenhouse and we would garden and do a lot of things that make you appreciate nature even more because you are interacting with it and you have all these memories of it. In contrast, when I was in middle school in Beijing we would travel 3 hours or so away to this place to stargaze - you could see no stars in the city because of light pollution. I remember that so vividly because you have to make those intentional efforts to go see nature. Here I'll be walking my dogs and you look up and there's stars, I still get so amazed by that. You want more people to be able to have that connection with the environment, this generation and later on. In college I wanted to continue that, it was still something I cared a lot about. That's why I decided to major in Global Sustainability and I'm glad I did. This major allowed me to explore a lot of areas I'm interested in like sustainable urban planning and climate justice because it is interconnected with all other types of injustice.

Being in a lot of environmental classes [and even clubs] there are a lot of projects, students come up with a lot of really good ideas. I know UVA leadership hears some of them but it would be really cool and efficient to actually implement some of these practices that are feasible. I think if they implemented some of those, really listening and letting them happen, and supporting students in that journey to push UVa and the community would help us grow together."
